#Functions
Functions are how you organize your code. 
All code should live inside a function.

#Example: 

	function sayHello () { 

		//body of the function 
	
	}

	//Call the sayHello function

	sayHello();

## Not all functions need a return value 
- **return**: returns something back to the caller, so the caller can then do something after with it. 
- **side effect**: when a function does not return anything,but something else happens. It is  not explicit. 

## Exercises of simple math functions 

	function areaCircle (radius){
	return Math.PI * radius *radius;

	}

	function areaTriangle (base,height){
	return (base * height)/ 2; 
	}

	function simpleInterest (principal,interest,time){
	return principal * interest * time;
	}

## Lets talk about Memory, CPU and Storage
- **memory**: all software requires to be loaded into memory. It is volatile and short term, in other words, it means that the contents of memory reset when you turn your computer off. 
- **storage**: storing your data physically. Long term memory. 
- **processor**: the CPU. It executes all the commands and instructions from memory. Basically taking numbers and pushing them to registers. Anything that can be boiled down to numbers is able to be computed. 

The process of computing software requires to fetch files from storage, loaded into main memory, and then processed. 
**Why is this important**? As a programmer, everything you do is manipulating data in memory. *Programming is all about the manipulation of data in the main memory (the temporal one)*

# Variables 

Variables allow you to represent and work with data. They are english names, and they reference a place in memory. 

## Declaring Variables

	var name; 
	var age; 
	var pet;

The **'='** is an assigned operator, not a defining operator. So the following declaration would be wrong: 

	var = name; 
An example of a correct statement would be: 

	var name = Esther; 
A variable can reference any kind of data. Tweets, movies, words, numbers, etc. 

## Exercises in Variables 

	function declareSomeVariables() {
		//declare strings
		var firstName = "Esther";
		var age = 26;
	}

	console.log(firstName  + ' is ' + "age" + " years " + " old.")
	// outputs: Esther is 26 years old. 

### Lets Calculate Age 

	function nameAge (){
    var name = prompt("What is your name");
    var lastname = prompt("What is last name");
    var year = prompt("What is year of birth");
    var age = 2015 - year;
    
    alert(name + " "+ lastname + " you are " + age + " years old!"); 
	}

	nameAge();


### Lets Calculate Farenheight to Celsius

	// This is the formula: (F - 32) * 5/9 = C 

	function farenCelcius (farenheight){
	    var farenheight = parseInt(prompt("what is the temperature in farenheight"));
	    var celcius= (farenheight - 32) * 5/9 
	    alert("Your temperature in Celcius is" + celcius.toFixed(2));
	    // the function .toFixed() recieves a number of how many decimals to round up to
	    
	}

	farenCelcius();
## Data types 

You may click [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Data_structures) and get an extensive explanation on Data types: 


1.  Numbers (1,2,3…)
2.  Strings (words) 
3.  Booleans 
4.  Undefined and null. (Null is when you expect an answer, but there is no answer.)
5.  Array [1,2,3,…]
6.  Objects {object} 






